<h1><strong><span style="color: #0000CD;">Subscription governance</span></strong></h1>


We will discuss and define subscriptions in more detail later in the course, however we wish to briefly mention them here in the context of governance.

There are mainly three aspects to consider in relation to creating and managing subscriptions: *Billing*, *Access Control* and *Subscription limits*. 

- *Billing*: Reports can be generated by subscriptions, if you have multiple internal departments and need to do "chargeback", a possible scenario is to create subscriptions by department or project.

- *Access Control*: A subscription is a deployment boundary for Azure resources and every subscription is associated with an Azure AD tenant that provides administrators the ability to set up role-based access control (RBAC). When designing a subscription model, one should consider the deployment boundary factor, some customers have separate subscriptions for Development and Production, each one is completely isolated from each other from a resource perspective and managed using RBAC. 


- *Subscription Limits*: Subscriptions are also bound to some hard limitations. For example, the maximum number of Express Route circuits per subscription is 10. Those limits should be considered during the design phase, if there is a need to go over those limits in particular scenarios, then additional subscriptions may be needed. If you hit a hard limit, there is no flexibility.

Also available to assist with managing subscriptions are management groups, which manage access, policies, and compliance across multiple Azure subscription. We will discuss these in more detail later.

**Note**: For more information about subscription limits, refer to <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-subscription-service-limits" target="_blank"><span style="color: #0066cc;" color="#0066cc"> Azure subscription and service limits, quotas, and constraints</span></a>.